Here are the 15 most confusing environmental terms – and what they mean (as well as the proportion of Britons who don’t know what they mean):

Circular Economy (80 per cent of Brits have no idea what this means): An economy where products and materials are designed so that they can be recycled or reused rather than thrown away. By contrast, the current system tends to be a “linear economy” which consists of extracting, manufacturing, consuming and throwing away.

Blue Carbon (55 per cent): Carbon dioxide that is absorbed from the atmosphere and stored in the world’s oceans and coastal ecosystems.

Black Carbon (52 per cent): is a sooty, black substance that’s produced from the incomplete combustion of fossil fuels and biomass, such as coal, oil, gas, wood, dung, and crops. It accelerates the melting of snow and ice, which are reflective surfaces, by absorbing heat from the sun.

Ecocide (52 per cent): refers to the destruction of the natural environment by deliberate or negligent human action. Common causes of ecocide include war, pollution, over-exploitation of natural resources such as the Amazon rainforest, and industrial disasters. There is currently no international crime of ecocide that applies in peacetime, only in wartime, covered by the Rome Statute.

Net Zero (45 per cent): refers to an activity that is not adding to the total amount of planet-warming CO2 or other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Many believe this means stopping the use of fossil fuels completely. In reality, it is expected that oil, gas and coal will continue to be used for some time in many cases under net zero scenarios – but with those greenhouse gases that are generated being offset by other actions that reduce them by the same amount, such as by planting trees or restoring peatlands, both of which absorb CO2

Afforestation (44 per cent): the process of planting trees or sowing seeds in an area that was previously not forested, to create a new forest.

Tipping Point (40 per cent): the point of no return after which changes caused by climate change become irreversible. It occurs when changes in part of the climate system becomes self-perpetuating. Taking the example of the Amazon rainforest crossing the “tipping point” (which some scientists say may have already happened but it is too soon to say) triggers a cycle of decline in which increased temperatures and droughts from climate change kill more trees and spawn new grassland. The dead trees provide and new grassland result in more forest fires, which release huge quantities of CO2 into the atmosphere, causing further climate change that kills more trees.

CFCs (39 per cent): Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) are non-toxic, non-flammable chemicals containing atoms of carbon, chlorine, and fluorine. They are used in the manufacture of aerosol sprays, blowing agents for foams and packing materials, as solvents, and as refrigerants. They deplete the ozone layer and are a powerful greenhouse gas, trapping heat in the atmosphere. The Montreal Protocol, an international treaty, banned the production of CFCs for most uses in 2010. However, they are still allowed for some applications while large volumes of CFCs still exist in older systems and have been said to pose an immediate threat to the environment.

Desertification (39 per cent): The process by which a fertile land changes itself into a desert by losing its flora and fauna, this can be caused by drought, deforestation, climate change, human activities or improper agriculture.

Ocean Dead Zones (38 per cent): Areas of water with low oxygen levels that make it difficult for sea life to survive. These areas are also known as hypoxic zones.

E-waste (37 per cent): Electronic waste (or e-waste) refers to discarded electrical or electronic devices. It is also commonly known as waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) or end-of-life (EOL) electronics.

Geothermal Energy (34 per cent): This is stored in the form of heat beneath the surface of the earth. It is a reliable and constant source of low-carbon, renewable heat that is not dependent on weather conditions. The earth’s core is about the same temperature as the surface of the sun, and this heat has been flowing to the surface for about 4.5 billion years.

Greenwashing (34 per cent): Greenwashing is a deceptive practice where an organisation or state makes false or misleading claims about their environmental impact to mislead the public into believing they are doing more to protect the environment than they actually are. The term is a combination of the words “green” and “washing” and refers to “whitewashing” a company’s image in an environmental context.

Biomass (33 per cent): In the context of ecology it means living organisms, while in the context of energy it means matter from recently living (but now dead) organisms such as plants and trees. This is typically burnt to produce energy and is regarded as renewable because plants and trees absorb CO2 as they grow.

Carbon capture and storage (CCS) (31 per cent): This relates to capturing carbon dioxide (CO2) at emission sources – such as a power station or manufacturing plant, transporting and then storing or burying it in a suitable deep, underground location. It can also involve sucking existing CO2 out of the atmosphere.